examples/csmsc/jets/README.md, before:

# JETS with CSMSC
This example contains code used to train a [JETS](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16852v1) model with [Chinese Standard Mandarin Speech Copus](https://www.data-baker.com/open_source.html).

## Dataset
### Download and Extract
Download CSMSC from it's [Official Website](https://test.data-baker.com/data/index/source).

### Get MFA Result and Extract
We use [MFA](https://github.com/MontrealCorpusTools/Montreal-Forced-Aligner) to get phonemes and durations for JETS.
You can download from here [baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/MFA/BZNSYP/with_tone/baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz), or train your MFA model reference to [mfa example](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSpeech/tree/develop/examples/other/mfa) of our repo.

## Get Started
Assume the path to the dataset is `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.
Assume the path to the MFA result of CSMSC is `./baker_alignment_tone`.
Run the command below to
1. **source path**.
2. preprocess the dataset.
3. train the model.
4. synthesize wavs.
    - synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.
    - synthesize waveform from a text file.

```bash
./run.sh
```
You can choose a range of stages you want to run, or set `stage` equal to `stop-stage` to use only one stage, for example, running the following command will only preprocess the dataset.
```bash
./run.sh --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
### Data Preprocessing
```bash
./local/preprocess.sh ${conf_path}
```
When it is done. A `dump` folder is created in the current directory. The structure of the dump folder is listed below.

```text
dump
├── dev
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
├── phone_id_map.txt
├── speaker_id_map.txt
├── test
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
└── train
    ├── feats_stats.npy
    ├── norm
    └── raw
```
The dataset is split into 3 parts, namely `train`, `dev`, and` test`, each of which contains a `norm` and `raw` subfolder. The raw folder contains wave、mel spectrogram、speech、pitch and energy features of each utterance, while the norm folder contains normalized ones. The statistics used to normalize features are computed from the training set, which is located in `dump/train/feats_stats.npy`.

Also, there is a `metadata.jsonl` in each subfolder. It is a table-like file that contains phones, text_lengths, the path of feats, feats_lengths, the path of pitch features, the path of energy features, the path of raw waves, speaker, and the id of each utterance.

### Model Training
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/train.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path}
```
`./local/train.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/train.py`.
Here's the complete help message.
```text
usage: train.py [-h] [--config CONFIG] [--train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA]
                [--dev-metadata DEV_METADATA] [--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR]
                [--ngpu NGPU] [--phones-dict PHONES_DICT]

Train a JETS model.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --config CONFIG       config file to overwrite default config.
  --train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA
                        training data.
  --dev-metadata DEV_METADATA
                        dev data.
  --output-dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        output dir.
  --ngpu NGPU           if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
  --phones-dict PHONES_DICT
                        phone vocabulary file.
```
1. `--config` is a config file in yaml format to overwrite the default config, which can be found at `conf/default.yaml`.
2. `--train-metadata` and `--dev-metadata` should be the metadata file in the normalized subfolder of `train` and `dev` in the `dump` folder.
3. `--output-dir` is the directory to save the results of the experiment. Checkpoints are saved in `checkpoints/` inside this directory.
4. `--ngpu` is the number of gpus to use, if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
5. `--phones-dict` is the path of the phone vocabulary file.

### Synthesizing

`./local/synthesize.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/synthesize.py`, which can synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.

```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/synthesize.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path} ${ckpt_name}
```

`./local/synthesize_e2e.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/synthesize_e2e.py`, which can synthesize waveform from text file.
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/synthesize_e2e.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path} ${ckpt_name}
```

## Pretrained Model

The pretrained model can be downloaded here:

- [jets_csmsc_ckpt_1.5.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/jets_csmsc_ckpt_1.5.0.zip)

The static model can be downloaded here:

- [jets_csmsc_static_1.5.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/jets_csmsc_static_1.5.0.zip)

Commit message:

[Hackathon 7th] fix Voc5/Jets/TTS2 with CSMSC (#3906)
* fix Voc5/Jets with CSMSC

* fix Voc5/Jets with CSMSC

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update README.md

* Update iSTFTNet.md

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Apply suggestions from code review

examples/csmsc/jets/README.md, after:

# JETS with CSMSC
This example contains code used to train a [JETS](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.16852v1) model with [Chinese Standard Mandarin Speech Copus](https://www.data-baker.com/open_source.html).

## Dataset
### Download and Extract
Download CSMSC from it's [official website](https://test.data-baker.com/data/index/TNtts/) and extract it to `~/datasets`. Then the dataset is in the directory `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.

The structure of the folder is listed below.

```text
└─ Wave
    └─ .wav files (audio speech)
└─ PhoneLabeling
    └─ .interval files (alignment between phoneme and duration)
└─ ProsodyLabeling
   └─ 000001-010000.txt (text with prosodic by pinyin)
```

### Get MFA Result and Extract
We use [MFA](https://github.com/MontrealCorpusTools/Montreal-Forced-Aligner) to get phonemes and durations for JETS.
You can download from here [baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/MFA/BZNSYP/with_tone/baker_alignment_tone.tar.gz), or train your MFA model reference to [mfa example](https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleSpeech/tree/develop/examples/other/mfa) of our repo.

## Get Started
Assume the path to the dataset is `~/datasets/BZNSYP`.
Assume the path to the MFA result of CSMSC is `./baker_alignment_tone`.
Run the command below to
1. **source path**.
2. preprocess the dataset.
3. train the model.
4. synthesize wavs.
    - synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.
    - synthesize waveform from a text file.

```bash
./run.sh
```
You can choose a range of stages you want to run, or set `stage` equal to `stop-stage` to use only one stage, for example, running the following command will only preprocess the dataset.
```bash
./run.sh --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
### Data Preprocessing
```bash
./local/preprocess.sh ${conf_path}
```
When it is done. A `dump` folder is created in the current directory. The structure of the dump folder is listed below.

```text
dump
├── dev
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
├── phone_id_map.txt
├── speaker_id_map.txt
├── test
│   ├── norm
│   └── raw
└── train
    ├── feats_stats.npy
    ├── norm
    └── raw
```
The dataset is split into 3 parts, namely `train`, `dev`, and` test`, each of which contains a `norm` and `raw` subfolder. The raw folder contains wave、mel spectrogram、speech、pitch and energy features of each utterance, while the norm folder contains normalized ones. The statistics used to normalize features are computed from the training set, which is located in `dump/train/feats_stats.npy`.

Also, there is a `metadata.jsonl` in each subfolder. It is a table-like file that contains phones, text_lengths, the path of feats, feats_lengths, the path of pitch features, the path of energy features, the path of raw waves, speaker, and the id of each utterance.

### Model Training
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/train.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path}
```
`./local/train.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/train.py`.
Here's the complete help message.
```text
usage: train.py [-h] [--config CONFIG] [--train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA]
                [--dev-metadata DEV_METADATA] [--output-dir OUTPUT_DIR]
                [--ngpu NGPU] [--phones-dict PHONES_DICT]

Train a JETS model.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --config CONFIG       config file to overwrite default config.
  --train-metadata TRAIN_METADATA
                        training data.
  --dev-metadata DEV_METADATA
                        dev data.
  --output-dir OUTPUT_DIR
                        output dir.
  --ngpu NGPU           if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
  --phones-dict PHONES_DICT
                        phone vocabulary file.
```
1. `--config` is a config file in yaml format to overwrite the default config, which can be found at `conf/default.yaml`.
2. `--train-metadata` and `--dev-metadata` should be the metadata file in the normalized subfolder of `train` and `dev` in the `dump` folder.
3. `--output-dir` is the directory to save the results of the experiment. Checkpoints are saved in `checkpoints/` inside this directory.
4. `--ngpu` is the number of gpus to use, if ngpu == 0, use cpu.
5. `--phones-dict` is the path of the phone vocabulary file.

### Synthesizing

`./local/synthesize.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/synthesize.py`, which can synthesize waveform from `metadata.jsonl`.

```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/synthesize.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path} ${ckpt_name}
```

`./local/synthesize_e2e.sh` calls `${BIN_DIR}/synthesize_e2e.py`, which can synthesize waveform from text file.
```bash
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=${gpus} ./local/synthesize_e2e.sh ${conf_path} ${train_output_path} ${ckpt_name}
```

## Pretrained Model

The pretrained model can be downloaded here:

- [jets_csmsc_ckpt_1.5.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/jets_csmsc_ckpt_1.5.0.zip)

The static model can be downloaded here:

- [jets_csmsc_static_1.5.0.zip](https://paddlespeech.bj.bcebos.com/Parakeet/jets_csmsc_static_1.5.0.zip)
